Machine Learnings Homepage Sign inGet started Machine Learnings Understand how AI will change your work and life All Articles Non-Technical Guide to AI Newsletter ? FollowFollowing Building a Foundation for Machine Learning Across Your Organization Building a Foundation for Machine Learning Across Your Organization Capital One Tech Nov 30, 2017 Two elements of winning machine learning companies Two elements of winning machine learning companies How to build a long term advantage and a competitive moat that protects against both incumbents and other startups. Satya Patel Nov 27, 2017 Why AI Companies Can’t Be Lean Startups Why AI Companies Can’t Be Lean Startups A Conversation with Matt Turck of FirstMark Capital Sam DeBrule Sep 11, 2017 AI Ethics and the Race to Bring Pen & Paper Industries Online AI Ethics and the Race to Bring Pen & Paper Industries Online A Conversation with Leo Polovets of Susa Ventures Sam DeBrule Nov 13, 2017 The Non-Technical Guide to Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence The Non-Technical Guide to Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence Sam DeBrule Nov 16, 2016 WTF is Artificial Intelligence? WTF is Artificial Intelligence? Understand what AI is, and the jobs & aspects of work most likely to be automated by AI, so you know how to position yourself for the… Sam DeBrule Apr 5, 2017 The AI-first SaaS Funding Napkin The AI-first SaaS Funding Napkin What does it take to raise seed funding as an AI-first SaaS startup? (Seed Edition —the 0.9 version ) Louis Coppey Sep 30, 2018 The Future of Terrorism: How State-Sponsored Actors Used Data to Indoctrinate Citizens The Future of Terrorism: How State-Sponsored Actors Used Data to In... A many of you know, before I entered the La-Croix filled halls of Silicon Valley, I spent several years in the defense and intelligence… Sarah Catanzaro Mar 22, 2018 Moving from a default trust to default skeptic society Moving from a default trust to default skeptic society What the future of technology does to the future of trust. Michael Dempsey Feb 14, 2018 Machine Learning won’t reach its potential without the human element Machine Learning won’t reach its potential without the human element A Conversation with Sarah Catanzaro of Amplify Partners Sam DeBrule Jan 8, 2018 Better Conversations with Machines Better Conversations with Machines Opportunities in Voice Tech and Conversational AI Jeff Smith Dec 27, 2017 The gift that sports gives to AI The gift that sports gives to AI The task of clustering data in the age of AI has some parallels with multi-event athletic competitions Melanie Hendrix Dec 11, 2017 PART II: Routes to defensibility for your AI Startup PART II: Routes to defensibility for your AI Startup A few additions to my initial post Louis Coppey Nov 5, 2017 Data is Holding Back AI Data is Holding Back AI Sultan Meghji Oct 20, 2017 Why are we so confident? Why are we so confident? Exploring a new dataset of confidence calibration assessments Andrew Mauboussin Oct 17, 2017 Routes to Defensibility for your AI Startup Routes to Defensibility for your AI Startup A framework for understanding data network effects and incumbents’ advantages Louis Coppey Oct 17, 2017 About Machine LearningsLatest StoriesArchiveAbout MediumTermsPrivacy