Sam DeBrule – Machine Learnings Homepage Homepage Become a memberSign inGet started Sam DeBrule Medium member since Jun 2018 Co-founder, Journal 3.5K Following15.2K Followers BlockedUnblockFollowFollowing Stories in Machine Learnings Other stories by Sam DeBrule Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Nov 11 Under the hood of the U.S. military’s facial recognition system Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “More women in India die from cervical cancer than in any other country. This preventable disease kills around 67,000 women in India every year, more than 25% of… Read more… 22 Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Nov 4 Twitter blocking political ads and machine learning Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “…[I]t will be a while before more powerful machine-learning models will be able to predict your mental and physical reactions to a song with any precision… But the researchers are… Read more… 57 Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Oct 28 Monitoring 200 million kids to improve AI algorithms Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “AI is also helping Wrege unravel some other long-held elephant mysteries?—?like whether they have a language and how sophisticated it might be…Wrege envisions a time when it will be… Read more… 26 Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Oct 21 Using machine learning to exploit poor populations Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “Doctors can detect heart failure from a single heartbeat with 100% accuracy using a new artificial intelligence-driven neural network…“[t]he application of organizational neuroscience… Read more… 12 Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Oct 14 Did a human write this? Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “[H]ow can we defend and protect ourselves against the inevitable [natural] disasters to come?…Machine-learning technologies can help decision makers more accurately answer urgent questions such as: When will the disaster hit? How… Read more… 27 Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Sep 23 Racial slurs hurled by a machine learning algorithm Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “…We’ve never directly detected or measured dark matter, but we know it exists because we can see its influence on the universe. Many of the movements of different stars and galaxies… Read more… 52 1 response Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Sep 9 The secret “Sea Mob” weapon and AI on the battlefield Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “A team from AI pharma startup Insilico Medicine, working with researchers at the University of Toronto, took 21 days to create 30,000 designs for molecules that target a protein… Read more… 51 Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Sep 3 Self-driving tech pioneer charged with 33 counts of theft Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “[If machine behavior suddenly became a mature field,] I think we would be able to better diagnose emergent [technological] problems, and maybe anticipate them. For example… Read more… 61 Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Aug 26 AI can help prevent mass shootings Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “Millions of people communicate using sign language, but so far projects to capture its complex gestures and translate them to verbal speech have had limited success. A new advance in real-time hand tracking from… Read more… 36 Sam DeBrule in Machine Learnings Aug 19 Who is listening to your most intimate conversations? Awesome, not awesome. #Awesome “I do believe that AI is the largest technology force of our time. We will not likely see another one like this. The automation of automation, the automation of intelligence, is… Read more… 15