The Non-Technical Guide to Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence Sign in Get started All Articles Non-Technical Guide to AI Newsletter ? Source: Wired + Prisma The Non-Technical Guide to Machine Learning & Artificial Intelligence Sam DeBrule Follow Nov 16, 2016 · 12 min read I have a challenge for you. In a few seconds, I want you to stop reading this article, and follow the instructions below. Here you go: 1. Visit your your favorite source for Tech news (Twitter, Hacker News, Term Sheet, reddit, TechCrunch, Mattermark Daily, CB Insights, etc.)2. Hit “crtl + f”3. Search “artificial intelligence” or “machine learning”4. If you don't find any matches, publicly shame me on Twitter. I hope my point is obvious. Machine learning and artificial intelligence (ML and AI) have seized Tech mindshare in a way few topics have in recent memory. A couple months ago I noticed people talking about artificial intelligence everywhere I looked. According to AI experts, everything from our jobs, to the wars we wage, to the food we eat, to the beer we drink, to the software we write will be affected. Not being one to enjoy surprises, I decided to spend my free time learning as much about the space (and what the future holds) as possible. ML and AI are having a huge impact on our lives, and their roles are only increasing. The better informed you are, the better prepared you’ll be to handle these changes as they happen. Rather than sit here and pretend I know everything there is to know about ML and AI, I’m going to hand you the resources I use to educate myself. I hope you will use them too. Join 30,000+ people who read the weekly ?Machine Learnings? newsletter to understand how AI will impact the way we work and live. How to Use This List There is already a ton of technical content being produced about artificial intelligence and machine learning. This list is a primer for non-technical people who want to understand what machine learning makes possible. To develop a deep understanding of the space, reading won’t be enough. You need to: have an understanding of the entire landscape, spot and use ML-enabled products in your daily life (Spotify recommendations), discuss artificial intelligence more regularly, and make friends with people who know more than you do about AI and ML. Startups: I’ve included links to the websites and apps of 307+ machine intelligence companies and tools. Alongside Mark Philpot, Avi Eisenberger, and Samiur Rahman, I’m building Journal — a product that uses machine learning to help people remember all the information they’ve come across that will be useful in the future. News: For starters, I’ve included a link to a weekly artificial intelligence email that Avi Eisenberger and I curate (?Subscribe to Machine Learnings?). Start here if you want to develop a better understanding of the space, but don’t have the time to actively hunt for machine learning and artificial intelligence news. People: Here’s a good place to jump into the conversation. I’ve provided links to Twitter accounts (and LinkedIn profiles and personal websites in their absence) of the founders, investors, writers, operators and researchers who work in and around the machine learning space. Events: If you enjoy getting out from behind your computer, and want to meet awesome people who are interested in artificial intelligence in real life, there is one place that’s best to do that, more on my favorite place below. Quick Navigation Links: News Sources Startups People Events Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence News Sources ??Weekly Emails: Machine Learnings A Weekly Roundup of ML & AI News. Machine Learning and AI are having a huge impact on our lives. Our mission is to… subscribe.machinelearnings.co ? Websites: Algorithm Tips - Find tips for stories on algorithms This is a growing list of potentially newsworthy algorithms used by the U.S. government. As more decisions are… algorithmtips.org frog frogs have an unusual mix of hybrid talents. They are analytical and artistic, conservative and unconventional… designmind.frogdesign.com Blog Product and sales at vertical AI startups benefit from bringing in key leaders from the industry early on in the… www.bradfordcross.com WTF is Artificial Intelligence? machinelearnings.co Harvard Business Review | Technology Find new ideas and classic advice for global leaders from the world's best business and management experts. hbr.org O’Reilly Media | Artificial Intelligence ideas and resources. The latest insights, ideas, and tools for building solutions that rely on machine intelligence. www.oreilly.com Emerging Tech - Recode Get the latest independent tech news, reviews and analysis from Recode with the most informed and respected journalists… www.recode.net Andreessen Horowitz — Artificial Intelligence Read the latest about artificial intelligence from a16z investors. a16z.com Updates | Tesla Blog Read the latest updates and watch videos from Tesla Motors. www.tesla.com Blog | Stitch Fix Technology - Multithreaded Stitch Fix is a full-stack startup creating unique solutions in data-driven merchandising, massively scaled personal… multithreaded.stitchfix.com Science and technology | The Economist The Economist offers authoritative insight and opinion on international news, politics, business, finance, science… www.economist.com MIT Technology Review The mission of MIT Technology Review is to equip its audiences with the intelligence to understand a world shaped by… www.technologyreview.com Medium | Artificial Intelligence The idea of cybersecurity as a digital immune system is an apt metaphor. We can't block everything, but we have to deal… medium.com Cornell University Library | Artificial Intelligence recent submissions AI Research arxiv.org Technology - Bloomberg Get the latest news coming out of the top tech companies including Apple, Google, Amazon, Facebook, Twitter and… www.bloomberg.com Center for Strategic and International Studies Edit Amazing how technological change can transform the way countries interrelate, develop, and pursue security at home and abroad. www.csis.org artificial intelligence | TechCrunch In a speech today at Web Summit, Facebook CTO Mike Schroepfer laid out a vision for the role artificial intelligence… techcrunch.com Popular Science Homepage The Perlan glider and 9 more of this year's amazing aerospace innovations www.popsci.com New Scientist Science news and science articles from New Scientist Science news and science articles from New Scientist Science news and science articles from New Scientistwww.newscientist.com WIRED Get in-depth coverage of current and future trends in technology, and how they are shaping business, entertainment… www.wired.com Google Research Blog The ability to learn from experience will likely be a key in enabling robots to help with complex real-world tasks… research.googleblog.com TechEmergence.com Innovation and Startups at the Intersection of Technology and Psychology Innovation and Startups at the Intersection of Technology and Psychology Innovation and Startups at the Intersection of Technology and www.techemergence.com AI Investor Forecasting the Winners of the AI Revolution aiinvestor.com Big Medium | Design for What's Next Big Medium is the design studio of Josh Clark and friends. We build forward-looking experiences for connected devices… bigmedium.com Technology News - The New York Times Find breaking news, tech news and multimedia on the Internet, telecommunications, wireless applications, electronics… www.nytimes.com MIT Technology Review The mission of MIT Technology Review is to equip its audiences with the intelligence to understand a world shaped by… www.technologyreview.com Quartz Quartz is a guide to the new global economy for people in business who are excited by change. We cover business… qz.com Technology The Atlantic covers news and analysis on politics, business, culture, technology, national, international and life on… www.theatlantic.com The Economist - World News, Politics, Economics, Business & Finance The Economist offers authoritative insight and opinion on international news, politics, business, finance, science… www.economist.com All Tech Considered All Tech Considered All Tech Consideredwww.npr.org Motherboard - The future is wonderful, the future is terrifying. The future is wonderful, the future is terrifying. The future is wonderful, the future is terrifying.motherboard.vice.com DeepMind Neural networks are the workhorse of many of the algorithms developed at DeepMind. For example, AlphaGo uses… deepmind.com Machine Intelligence Startups & Tools Source: Shivon Zilis One of the major promises of AI is freeing people from mindless tasks, so they can do more meaningful work. When we’re not writing posts about AI, we’re building Journal to help you see and search your private work information, all in one place. Get Early Access Shivon Zilis and James Cham, who invest in machine learning-related companies for Bloomberg Beta, recently created a machine intelligence market landscape. Below, you can find links to the 317+ companies in the landscape (and a few more), and play around with some apps that are applying machine learning in interesting ways. Enterprise Intelligence ?Visual Algocian Captricity Clarifai Cortica Deepomatic DeepVision Netra Orbital Insight Planet Spaceknow ?Audio Capio Clover Intelligence Gridspace MindMeld Mobvoi Nexidia Pop Up Archive Quirious.ai TalkIQ Twilio ?Sensor Alluvium C3 IoT Planet OS Maana KONUX Imubit GE Predix ThingWorx Uptake Sentenai Preferred Networks ?Internal Data Alation Arimo Cycorp Deckard.ai Digital Reasoning IBM Watson Kyndi Databricks Sapho ?Market Bottlenose CB Insights DataFox Enigma Intelligent Layer Mattermark Predata Premise Quid Tracxn Enterprise Functions ??Customer Support ActionIQ Clarabridge Eloquent Labs Kasisto Preact Wise.io Zendesk ?Sales 6sense AppZen Aviso Clari Collective[i] Fusemachines InsideSales Salesforce Einstein Zensight ?Marketing AirPR BrightFunnel CogniCor Lattice LiftIgniter Mintigo msg.ai Persado Radius Retention Science ?Security Cylance Darktrace Deep Instinct Demisto Drawbridge Networks Graphistry LeapYear SentinelOne SignalSense Zimperium ?Recruiting Entelo Algorithmia HiQ HireVue SpringRole Textio Unitive Wade & Wendy Autonomous Systems ?Ground Navigation AdasWorks Auro Robotics Drive.ai Google Mobileye nuTonomy Tesla Uber Zoox ??Aerial Airware DJI DroneDeploy Lily Pilot AI Labs Shield AI Skycatch Skydio ?Industrial Clearpath Robotics Fetch Robotics Harvest Automation JaybridgeRobotics Kindred AI Osaro Rethink Robotics Agents ??Personal Amazon Alexa Apple Siri Facebook M Google Now/Allo Microsoft Cortana Replika ?Professional Journal Alien Labs Butter.ai Clara Labs Slack Sudo Talla x.ai Zoom.ai Industries ?Agriculture Abundant Robotics AgriData Blue River Technology Descartes Labs Mavrx Pivot Bio TerrAvion Trace Genomics Tule UDIO ?Education AltSchool Content Technologies (CTI) Coursera Gradescope Knewton Volley ?Investment AlphaSense Bloomberg Cerebellum Capital Dataminr iSentium Kensho Quandl Sentient ?Legal Beagle Blue J Legal Legal Robot Ravel Law ROSS Intelligence Seal ?Transportation/Logistics Acerta ClearMetal Marble NAUTO PitStop Preteckt Routific ?Materials Calculario Citrine Eigen Innovations Ginkgo Bioworks Nanotronics Sight Machine Zymergen ?Retail Finance Affirm Betterment Earnest Lendo Mirador Tala (a InVenture) Wealthfront ZestFinance Healthcare ?Patient Atomwise CareSkore Deep6 Analytics IBM Watson Health Numerate Medical Oncora pulseData Sentrian Zephyr Health DreamUp Vision ?Image 3Scan Arterys Bay Labs Butterfly Network Enlitic Google DeepMind Imagia ?Biological Atomwise Color Genomics Deep Genomics Grail iCarbonX Luminist Numerate Recursion Pharmaceuticals Verily Whole Biome Technology Stack ?Agent & Conversational Interfaces Automat Howdy Kasisto KITT.AI Maluuba Octane AI OpenAI Gym Semantic Machines ?Data Science Ayasdi BigML Dataiku DataRobot Domino Data Lab Kaggle RapidMiner Seldon Spark Beyond Yhat Yseop ?Machine Learning Bonsai ScaleContext Relevant Cycorp Datacratic deepsense.io Geometric Intelligence H2O.ai HyperScience Loop AI Labs minds.ai Nara LogicsReactive Scaled Inference Skymind SparkCognition ?Natural Language Agolo AYLIEN Cortical.io Lexalytics Loop AI Labs Luminoso MonkeyLearn Narrative Science spaCy ?Development AnOdot Bonsai Deckard.ai Fuzzy.ai Hyperopt Kite Layer 6 AI Lobe.ai RainforestQA SignifAI SigOpt ?Data Capture Amazon Mechanical Turk CrowdAI CrowdFlower Datalogue DataSift diffbot Enigma Import.io Paxata Trifacta WorkFusion ?Open Source Libraries Amazon DSSTNE Apache Spark Azure ML Baidu Caffe Chainer DeepLearning4j H2O.ai Keras Microsoft CNTK Microsoft DMTK MLlib MXNet Nervana Neon PaddlePaddle scikit-learn TensorFlow Theano Torch7 Weka ?Hardware 1026 Labs Cadence Cirrascale Google TPU Intel (Nervana) Isocline KNUPATH NVIDIA DGX-1/Titan X Qualcomm Tenstorrent Tensilica ?Research Cogitai Kimera Knoggin NNAISENSE Numenta OpenAI Vicarious People to Know in Machine Learning and AI Andrew Ng Chief Scientist of Baidu; Chairman and Co-Founder of Coursera; Stanford CS faculty. Sam Altman President, YC Group, OpenAI co-chairman. Harry Shum EVP, Microsoft AI and Research. Geoffrey Hinton The godfather of deep learning. Samiur Rahman CEO of Journal. Former Data Engineering Lead at Mattermark. Jeff Dean Google Senior Fellow at Google, Inc. Co-founder and leader of Google’s deep learning research and engineering team. Eric Horvitz Technical Fellow at Microsoft Research Denny Britz Deep Learning at Google Brain. Tom Mitchell Computer scientist and E. Fredkin University Professor at the Carnegie Mellon University. Chris Dixon General Partner at Andreessen Horowitz. Hilary Mason Founder at FastForwardLabs. Data Scientist in Residence at Accel. Elon Musk Tesla Motors, SpaceX, SolarCity, PayPal & OpenAI. Kirk Borne The Principal Data Scientist at Booz Allen, PhD Astrophysicist. Peter Skomoroch Co-Founder & CEO SkipFlag. Previously Principal Data Scientist at LinkedIn, Engineer at AOL. Paul Barba Chief Scientist at Lexalytics. Andrej Karpathy Research scientist at OpenAI. Previously CS PhD student at Stanford. Monica Rogati Former VP of Data Jawbone & LinkedIn data scientist. Xavier Amatriain Leading Engineering at Quora. Netflix alumni. Mike Gualtieri Forrester VP & Principal Analyst. Fei-Fei Li Professor of Computer Science, Stanford University, Director of Stanford AI Lab. David Silver Royal Society University Research Fellow. Nando de Freitas Professor of Computer ScienceFellow, Linacre College. Roberto Cipolla Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge. Gabe Brostow Associate Professor in Computer Science at London’s Global University. Arthur Gretton Associate Professor with the Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit. Ingmar Posner University Lecturer in Engineering Science at the University of Oxford. Pieter Abbeel Associate Professor, UC Berkeley, EECS. Berkeley Artificial Intelligence Research (BAIR) laboratory. UC Berkeley Center for Human Compatible AI. Co-Founder Gradescope. Josh Wills Slack Data Engineering and Apache Crunch committer. Noah Weiss Head of Search, Learning, & Intelligence at Slack in NYC. Former SVP of Product at foursquare + Google PM on structured search. Michael E. Driscoll Founder, CEO Metamarkets. Investor at Data Collective Drew Conway Founder and CEO of Alluvium. Sean Taylor Facebook Data Science Team Demis Hassabis Co-Founder & CEO, DeepMind. Randy Olson Senior Data Scientist at Penn Institute for Biomedical Informatics. Shivon Zilis Partner at Bloomberg Beta where she focuses on machine intelligence companies. Adam Gibson Founder of Skymind. Alexandra Suich Technology reporter for The Economist. Anthony Goldblum Co-founder and CEO of Kaggle. Avi Goldfarb Professor at Rotman, University of Toronto and the Chief Data Scientist at Creative Destruction Lab. Ben Lorica Chief Data Scientist of O'Reilly Media, and Program Director of O’Reilly Strata & O’ReillyAI conferences. Ben hosts the O’Reilly Data Show Podcast too. Chris Nicholson Co-founder Deeplearning4j & Skymind. Previous to that, Chris worked at The New York Times. Doug Fulop Product manager at Kindred.ai. Dror Berman Founder, Innovation Endeavors. Dylan Tweney Founder of @TweneyMedia, former EIC @venturebeat, ex-@WIRED, publisher of @tinywords. Gary Kazantsev R&D Machine Learning at Bloomberg LP. Gideon Mann Head of Data Science / CTO Office at Bloomberg LP. Gordon Ritter Cloud investor at Emergence Capital, cloud entrepreneur. Jack Clark Strategy and Communications Director OpenAI. Past: @business World’s Only Neural Net Reporter. @theregister Distributed Systems Reporter. Federico Pascual COO & Co-Founder, MonkeyLearn. Matt Turck VC at FirstMark Capital and the organizer of Data Driven NYC and Hardwired NYC. Nick Adams Data Scientist, Berkeley Institute for Data Science. Roger Magoulas Research Director, O’Reilly Media. Sean Gourley Former CEO, Quid. Shruti Gandhi Array.VC, previously at True & Samsung Ventures. Steve Jurvetson Partner at Draper Fisher Jurvetson. Vijay Sundaram Venture Capitalist Innovation Endeavors, Tinkerer Polkadot Labs. Zavain Dar VC Lux Capital, Lecturer Stanford University, Moneyball Philadelphia 76ers. Yann Lecun Director of AI Research, Facebook. Founding Director of the NYU Center for Data Science Sarah Catanzaro Investor @canvasvc; former Data Lead @Mattermark. Paul Hsiao AI + Marketplace Investor @CanvasVC. Dennis Mortensen CEO and founder of x.ai. Pedro Domingos. Professor of computer science at UW and author of ‘The Master Algorithm’. Ryan Dawidjan.Product Team, Clarifai. Russ Salakhutdinov. Professor at Carnegie Mellon University. Aerin Kim. Unapologetic abuser of the machine BYOR. Lucy Wang. Data Scientist, VC Greycroft Partners, MS NYU Center for Data Science. Miles Brundage. AI Policy Research Fellow, Future of Humanity Institute, Oxford. PhD candidate, Human and Social Dimensions of Science and Technology, ASU. Rizwan Habib. Founder & Organizer, New York Artificial Intelligence (NYAI). Andreas Mueller. Lecturer at the Columbia Data Science Institute. Roger Chen Program Chair, O’Reilly Artificial Intelligence Conference. Jason Yosinski Machine Learning Scientist at Geometric Intelligence. Soumith Chintala Artificial Intelligence Research Engineer at Facebook. Suchi Saria Assistant Professor at Johns Hopkins University. Expertise in machine learning, streaming data and health informatics. Rob McInerney Founder and CEO of Intelligent Layer. PhD in Machine Learning at Oxford University. Peter Norvig Research Director at Google. Sebastian Thrun CEO of Udacity and part-time research professor of computer science at Stanford. Zoubin Ghahramani Researcher and Professor of Information Engineering at the University of Cambridge. Daphne Koller Professor of Computer Science at Stanford, Co-Founder of Coursera. Amir Banifatemi Leads and provides thought leadership for the Global IBM Watson Artificial Intelligence Xprize prize. Frank Chen Partner at Andreessen Horowitz. Lili Cheng General Manager, Fuse Labs, Microsoft Research. Shane Legg Chief Scientist and Co-Founder, Deepmind. Mustafa Suleyman Co-founder of Deepmind. Nathan Benaich Investor at Playfair Capital. Artificial Intelligence and ML Events I’ve written previously about my (lack of) love for networking events. NYAI has managed to rise above the noise and organize ~1,500 researchers, students, founders, and investors who are genuinely awesome people. The impacts that machine learning and AI have on our world will not be felt in isolation. These changes will affect all of us. NYAI’s monthly events are the best way, that I’ve found so far, to learn about, collaborate on and network over emerging trends in artificial intelligence. Machine Learnings Understand how machine learning and artificial intelligence will change your work & life. Follow 7.1K Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning Startups Tech Technology 7.1K claps Written by Sam DeBrule Follow Co-founder, Journal Follow Machine Learnings Follow Understand how machine learning and artificial intelligence will change your work & life. Follow See responses (60) Discover MediumWelcome to a place where words matter. On Medium, smart voices and original ideas take center stage - with no ads in sight. Watch Make Medium yoursFollow all the topics you care about, and we’ll deliver the best stories for you to your homepage and inbox. Explore Become a memberGet unlimited access to the best stories on Medium — and support writers while you’re at it. Just $5/month. Upgrade AboutHelpLegal