Welcome to Medium, where words matter. Homepage Homepage Our storyAbout membershipUpgrade Welcome to Medium, where words matter. Ideas and perspectives you won’t find anywhere else. Medium taps into the brains of the world’s most insightful writers, thinkers, and storytellers to bring you the smartest takes on topics that matter. So whatever your interest, you can always find fresh thinking and unique perspectives. techculturepoliticsbusinesslife The future of the open internet?—?and our way of life?—?is in your hands The future of the open internet?—?and our way of life?—?is in your hands There are a lot of scary things happening… Quincy Larson You Don’t Understand Bitcoin Because You Think Money Is Real You Don’t Understand Bitcoin Because You Think Money Is Real Maria Bustillos The Real Cost of Phone Addiction The Real Cost of Phone Addiction Catherine Price The End of Traffic The End of Traffic Increasing American Prosperity and Quality of Life John Zimmer The Boundaries of Artificial Emotional Intelligence The Boundaries of Artificial Emotional Intelligence Leigh Alexander More writing on tech The physics of flying dragons Lesser-known causes of climate change How to control machines with your thoughts Killer robots and the moral dilemma of automation How Pinterest hooks users The driverless economy Bitcoin for five-year-olds Why you should encrypt your entire life Machine learning and AI The finer points of JavaScript Silicon Valley’s industry dominance App development tutorials The future of biotech Virtual reality films Why quantum computing matters The history of hashtags Apple’s next move When VR will go mainstream What happened to Google Glass Samsung’s weird emojis Do’s and Don’ts of web typography lifeculture A platform built for…people, not advertisers not for advertisers not quantity no sponsored content no pop ups & banners no clickbait not pageviews people quality original ideas clean reading experience engagement & depth viewpoints A customizable reading experience, made just for you. With the power of the network, different ways to engage with stories, and the ability to follow your favorite topics, writers, and publications, you’re in control of your reading experience. So the stories that matter most to you are always at your fingertips. From the Medium Community Medium is trying to shift the paradigm. They’re catering to those looking for fresh, new, authentic voices. I believe wholeheartedly in their mission, and as a writer, the tools that have afforded me have allowed me to broaden my reach as an artist in a way I would have never thought I could. Joel Leon. Do yourself a favor and start browsing Medium for high quality articles on just about ANY topic. Get those mental gears turning! Rosemichelle Marzan There’s no other place that combines such an excellent level of writing with a truly engaged and active community. Medium is truly where ideas are born, shared, and spread. Jasmine Bina In a web full of pseudo thought-leaders, Medium is the one place that I can reliably come to and be better informed in the easiest way possible of the things that matter to me. Paul Fabretti Unlock a new layer of Medium when you become a member. Upgrade